>> Josh Long: We just spent a moment
looking at messaging, which I think is,
I hate to think that it's niche,
I don't think it should be niche.
I think it should be
the prevalent standard,
should be the way we think
about building systems today.
But admittedly, for the moment,
it's not an everybody concern.
What we're going to talk about next I
think is more of an everybody concern.
Before you've ever gotten
a bite across a network socket,
you're going to have to think about
how you structure your code base.
And in a Spring project, which is,
remember, Spring is Java and Java, say
what you will about Java, but it is really
good at building large code bases, right?
It's got a good strong type system,
very fast compiler.
Well, if you're not doing Graalvm,
that is.
And it's got, you know,
modularity, it's got rigidity,
it's got good information hiding
in private privacy controls and
it's easy to create
a mess because of that.
It's easy to create a very large code base
with too many moving parts that don't play
well together.
My muse is, as ever, Peanut and
Prancer, the terrible, terrible dogs.
So we're going to build a modular
system to support adopting them.
Okay, we're going to go to the lab again,
we're going to generate a new project.
I'm going to call it Adoptions.
We'll bring in the Spring web support,
we're going to bring in the postgres
support, we're going to bring
in the Docker compose support.
Although I've got a database that I've
already got pre seeded with some data,
so I'm not going to bother with this.
But you could.
I'm gonna bring in Spring Data JDBC,
I'm gonna bring in the DevTools, I'm gonna
bring in the Spring Modulus project, and
I'll bring in GraalVM, I think that's it.
Maybe, yeah, that's it.
Let's just call that, okay?
And now, adoptions.zip, open in my IDE.
And again, I wanna do this in such a way
as to reduce the blast radius of change so
that I layer things logically.
So I'll create a package
here called Adoptions and
there I'll create a dog adoption service.
And this will be @service, @transactional.
Why is it public?
Right, this is an IntelliJ thing, right?
I don't know why the ID insists
on making things public, but
they should not be by default.
In Java, things are not public by default.
You have to go out of your
way to make them public.
And that's by design.
So why intellij insists on adding
that extra token, I'll never know.
It encourages bad design.
The result is that everything in your
code is public by default, right?
Which is, it's contrary to what we're
trying to do with an object oriented
language like Java,
which has information hiding.
The whole point of information hiding
is to hide information, right?
That's one of the benefits there because
it gives you that encapsulation.
If you want everything to be in a big
flat global namespace where everything is
public, just use C.
It's more honest.
Do that.
Don't do this,
don't torture Java like that.
So we'll create a dog type here,
string name,
string owner, string description, okay?
And I'll have my ID annotation here.
I have my repository here, DogRepository,
extends ListCrudRepository, okay?
And I'm going to be
connecting to a database.
I've already got a database
running locally, so
I'll do spring dataset data source,
my user password is Secret and
then URL is jdbc PostgreSQL
localhost my database.
Okay, so we have a method here called
adopt void, adopt int dog id and
we're going to pass in the new owner and
that's going to connect to a database.
Like I said, nice thing.
In Intellij ultimate, you can click on
this, click on that, click on that,
Go over here, go over there, go over
there, go over there, go over there.
Tables, dogs.
Okay, so there's our dog, Prancer.
This is our buddy that we
talked about yesterday.
He's a demonic,
neurotic man hating, animal hating,
children hating dog that
looks like a gremlin, okay?
And awkwardly, no owner, right?
So our goal is to write a little bit of
software to help remedy that situation.
And so
we're going to use the DogRepository here,
add that to the constructor, and
we'll say this.dogRepository.findById.
If the dog is present,
we're going to update it by writing out an
updated version of the owner of the dog,
rather to the database with
a new owner attribute there.
And so I'll then say dogRepository.save(),
and so on, okay?
And now I might just announce,
hey, adopted this dog, okay?
Updated like that.
And then that.
And now I want to test this out.
I want somebody to interact
with that service.
So I'll build a controller and notice that
everything has been packaged private.
It's not public.
I'm just doing everything
in the same package.
You don't have to.
You can do everything in the same package
as separate classes and separate files.
And that works as well.
So, /dog//adoptions, void adopt, and
it'll be a @PathVariable int dogId,
and it'll be a @RequestParam, right?
An attribute in the request
that'll get sent in.
So that's called owner.
And then we'll say
dogService.adopt dot dot, okay?
So there's my DogController,
my DogService, my repository, and
my entity in 50 lines of code,
50-something lines of code.
Now let's try that out.
Okay, I'm going to start this up.
Hopefully this will work.
There's only one way to find out.
Okay, it looks like it's good.
So HTTP form post HTTP.
Sorry, it's at :8080/dogs/45/adoptions
owner=jlong, right?
And remember, I haven't run that thing
yet, but remember, owner is null for 45.
His ID is 45, okay?
Dogs 45 adoptions post refresh that.
And now the owner's JLong.
So it's worked.
Yeah, kinda.
But come on,
that's a bit of a contrivance, isn't it?
That's a silly example.
I mean, I wrote everything is in its place
and everything kind of makes sense for
what it's doing, but it's a lot of code.
Just update one little column, and one
table, and one database somewhere, right?
And yeah, that's pretty trivial.
I get it, I get it.
It's a bit of a contrivance.
And it's not real, is it?
In most organizations,
in most jurisdictions,
you can't just take possession of a live
animal by updating a single column in
a single database somewhere.
There's typically more process involved,
right?
You might have to schedule
an appointment to see the veterinarian.
Okay, so we're go over here and we'll
create a new package here called vet.
And then in there, the veterinarian is
a doctor for dogs, so it's a dogtor.
Okay, we should call it that.
And now I could, I could make this public.
I could do that.
I could say public void
schedule(int dogId), and
then `System.out.println("Scheduling for
this dog ID"), right?
And then I could use that dog tour
back over here in my main code.
So close that, close that.
And down here, right.
Before I print out the confirmation,
I could say dog tour.
Schedule dog ID so I can schedule
an appointment to have the doctor have
the dog looked at by a dog tour.
Okay, so now we go back over here,
publish the same request.
There you go.
And go back to the command line.
Where's my Command line?
Command five.
Okay, you can see it says Scheduling for
45 and adopted this ID.